After running StringTie for transcript assembly, you often need to convert the generated GTF files into GFF3 format. Additionally, you may want to extract the corresponding nucleotide sequences from a reference genome and save them in FASTA format. This guide outlines the commands needed to perform these tasks.

### Prerequisites

Ensure that you have:
Anaconda or Miniconda installed.
The Cufflinks environment set up with StringTie and gffread installed.
The output file from StringTie, typically named transcripts.gtf.

conda activate Cufflinks

This command activates the Cufflinks conda environment, making sure that all necessary dependencies for working with transcriptomic data are available.

### Convert GTF to GFF3

```
gffread /path/to/your/transcripts.gtf -o transcripts.gff3
```

This command uses gffread to convert a GTF file (transcripts.gtf) generated by StringTie into GFF3 format. The resulting GFF3 file (transcripts.gff3) is used for further analysis or visualization tools that require GFF3 format.

### Parameters:

transcripts.gtf: Input GTF file generated by StringTie.
-o transcripts.gff3: Specifies the output file name for the GFF3 format.

Extract Transcripts in FASTA Format

```
gffread transcripts.gff3 -g /path/to/your/Genome/genome.fna -w transcripts.fasta
```

This command extracts the nucleotide sequences of the transcripts from the GFF3 file and outputs them in FASTA format. 

### Parameters:

transcripts.gff3: Input GFF3 file generated from the previous step.
-g /proj/snic2022-23-541/Ticks_project/Data/Genome/Ixodes_ricinus_2024.fna: Specifies the path to the reference genome file required to extract the sequence information.
-w transcripts.fasta: Specifies the output file name for the FASTA format, where the transcript sequences will be saved.
